---
title: "Tips"
bg: blue
color: white
fa-icon: key
style: left
---

## Use multiple and partition
- You have to use a good **number of different** passwords, seriously.
- If/when you share passwords between services, keep the **types of services** separate and similar.  _For example: you might use an easier password for low-security social accounts, and use an extra-special password for your bank and/or financial login(s)._ If one service you use gets hacked, only similar sites and apps will be at risk.

-----

## Password content
- Most systems consider strong to mean: upper and lowercase letters, numbers, and punctuation-ish marks --some enforce this.  
- Often long but **easy to remember** passwords are WAY more secure!   _Intel says while "XF1&tmb" would take 6 minutes to hack, but "The-shining-sea" would take 48 years of brute force hacking._
- Don't use passwords that an identify thief could **obviously guess**. _Example: birth date, child's name, home address, your own name._

-----

## Common is a mistake
- Many **simple** passwords come to everyone's mind, this is a great reason not to use them.  Passwords like: `password`, `god`, `letmein`, and `qwerty` enable instant cracking.  _Sadly, 10% of people use one of the top 500 passwords!_
  _Accoring to [XATO.net](https://xato.net/passwords/more-top-worst-passwords)_
- **Swapping numbers** and punctuation marks for similar letters is also automatically tried by hacker software, so it **won't help** you.

-----

## Secure pages
- Enter your passwords ONLY on pages that have **HTTPS addresses**, so you know it's at least reasonably secure.
- The whole site doesn't need to be HTTPS, but once you jump out of HTTPS you are not necessarily secure anymore.
